HS979
Production of Greenhouse-Grown Peppers in Florida1
Elio Jovicich, Daniel J. Cantliffe, Steven A. Sargent, Lance S. Osborne2
1. This document is HS979, one of a series of the Horticultural Sciences Department, Florida Cooperative Extension Service, Institute of Food and
Agricultural Sciences, University of Florida. Original publication date July 2004. Reviewed August 2012. Visit the EDIS website at http://edis.ifas.ufl.edu.
2. Elio Jovicich, graduate student; Daniel J. Cantliffe, professor; Steven A. Sargent, professor, Horticultural Sciences Department; Lance S. Osborne,
Entomology and Nematology Department, Cooperative Extension Service, Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences, University of Florida,
Gainesville, FL 32611.
The Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences (IFAS) is an Equal Opportunity Institution authorized to provide research, educational information and other services only to
individuals and institutions that function with non-discrimination with respect to race, creed, color, religion, age, disability, sex, sexual orientation, marital status, national
origin, political opinions or affiliations. U.S. Department of Agriculture, Cooperative Extension Service, University of Florida, IFAS, Florida A&M University Cooperative
Extension Program, and Boards of County Commissioners Cooperating. Thomas A. Obreza, Interim Dean
Introduction
In the US, the consumption of high quality red, yellow, and
orange bell peppers (Capsicum annuum) has been increas-
ing dramatically in the past decade. To satisfy consumers
demand, Mexico, The Netherlands, Canada, Israel, and
Spain have been exporting high-quality greenhouse-grown
peppers into the U.S. In Florida, high market prices,
consumer demand, and a suitable environment for growing
colored peppers under protected agriculture have encour-
aged greenhouse growers to consider the economic viability
of this crop. In the past years, high quality colored peppers
(greenhouse-grown) shipped to Miami averaged year-
round wholesale fruit prices 3 times greater than colored
field-grown fruits, and 5 times greater than field-grown
green fruits. With mild winter regions, Florida’s green-
house industry benefits from growing plants and producing
fruits under a relatively optimal plant environment during
much of the year (Fig. 1).
The total area in Florida with greenhouse-grown peppers
expanded to 25 acres in the year 2002. This area could
increase in the near future, in part as a consequence of
greater demand for specialty vegetable crops, the ban
of methyl bromide, and increases in urban sprawl and
subsequent high prices for arable land. For the past 5 years,
pepper ranked first in production area in the state’s total
greenhouse area dedicated to vegetable crops (followed by
tomato, cucumber, and lettuce).
A greenhouse production system of peppers differs greatly
from the traditional field pepper cultivation system where
plants are grown on polyethylene-mulched beds and with
drip irrigation, and where fruits are typically harvested at
the mature green stage of development (Fig. 2).
Figure 1. High quality colored bell peppers can be produced in high-
roof, passively ventilated greenhouses.
Credits: Elio Jovicich
Figure 2. Field grown bell peppers in southeast Florida where fruits
are harvested at the mature green stage.
Credits: Elio Jovicich
Archival copy: for current recommendations see http://edis.ifas.ufl.edu or your local extension office.

-- 1 of 8 --

2
Depending on the region’s climate and crop-growing
season, greenhouses can be a means to economically
maintain a warm environment during cool seasons, to
protect pepper plants from rain, wind, and high solar radia-
tion, and to retain pollinators and beneficial insects while
excluding unwanted insect pests (Fig. 3). In greenhouses,
pepper fruits are harvested with full maturation color (Fig.
4), and fruit yields are greater, of higher quality, and usually
produced at a time of the year when production in the field
is not possible and market prices for peppers are highest.
Marketable fruit yields will vary with greenhouse location,
growing season, plant density, trellis system,cultivar, irriga-
tion, and fertilizer management. Current marketable fruit
yields of 1.6 to 3.0 lb per square foot and potential yields
of 4 lb/ft2 can be obtained in Florida in passive ventilated
greenhouses with low use of fuel for heating. However, be-
cause of the higher costs involved with greenhouse growing
systems compared to growing in the open field, greenhouse
growers have to manage their crops to maximize fruit yield
and quality while minimizing production costs per unit of
greenhouse floor area.
The production of soilless greenhouse-grown bell peppers,
along with the production of other specialty crops such
as strawberries, Galia melons, and Beit Alpha cucumbers,
have been and continue being researched at the Horticul-
tural Sciences Protected Agriculture Center (http://www.
hos.ufl.edu/ProtectedAg) at the University of Florida, IFAS,
to provide information and assist existing and intending
greenhouse growers.
Greenhouse Structures
In Florida, there is a trend currently for using high-roof,
passively ventilated greenhouse structures (13-ft high or
more to the roof gutter) for protected vegetable production
(Fig. 5).
In contrast to the low-roof structures used in the past
(mainly adaptations of greenhouse structures designed
for nursery and ornamental crops), high-roof greenhouse
structures with roof vents and side curtains lead to lower
inside air temperatures during the warm season and permit
high vertical training of crops such as pepper, tomato,
cucumber, and melon.
The greenhouses are covered with polyethylene, which is re-
placed every 3-4 years. The polyethylene is a UV-absorbing
type of film which can reduce the spread of insect pests
and virus diseases in covered crops. The polyethylene film
also prevents water condensation from forming on the film
Figure 3. Greenhouse-grown peppers in Florida for harvesting fruits
during an extended growing season.
Credits: Dr. Steve Sargent
Figure 4. Greenhouse-grown bell pepper ready to be harvested.
Credits: Elio Jovicich
Figure 5. Passively ventilated greenhouse at the Horticultural Sciences
Protected Agriculture Center, Plant Science Research and Education
Unit, UF, IFAS, Citra, FL.
Credits: Elio Jovicich
Archival copy: for current recommendations see http://edis.ifas.ufl.edu or your local extension office.

-- 2 of 8 --

3
surface. The side walls and roof vents can be covered with
insect screens (50 mesh) to restrict the entrance of pest
insects and to keep beneficial insects, such as bumblebees
(Bombus spp.), within the greenhouse.
These high-roof greenhouse designs are less expensive
and more suited to be used in regions with subtropical
and tropical climates than structures covered with glass or
polycarbonate. Costs of passively ventilated greenhouses
can range as much as 80% less per square foot than the
types of greenhouses that seek maximum climate control.
Greenhouses with passive ventilation and heating provide
a level of climate control that enables plants to survive and
produce at economically sufficient yields.
Cultivars
The sweet pepper cultivars most commonly used in
greenhouse production are hybrids that have bell-shaped or
blocky-type fruits, with red, orange, or yellow color when
they are mature (Fig. 6). Cultivars which produce purple,
brown, or white fruit are less commonly grown, as they
have less market demand. Cultivars should be selected for
a growers ability to market them as well as pest and disease
resistance or tolerance, low susceptibility to fruit disorders,
and yield and quality performance. Some of the commonly
used cultivars are Parker, Triple 4, Cubico, and Lorca for
red; Kelvin, for yellow; and Neibla, and Emily, for orange
fruits. New pepper cultivars for greenhouse production are
introduced every year by seed companies. For short season
crops, some local growers have been evaluating the perfor-
mance of field pepper cultivars grown under greenhouse
production systems.
In a pepper cultivar trial conducted in a passively ventilated
greenhouse in Gainesville Fl, the total marketable yield
was acceptable for all 23 cultivars tested when grown
and harvested during the winter months in north central
Florida (manuscript by Shaw and Cantliffe (2002) accessible
at http://www.hos.ufl.edu/ProtectedAg). The red and
yellow cultivars produced fruit yields of 1.8 to 2.2 lb per
ft2
, the orange cultivars had yields of 1.4 to 2 lb per ft2 and
the chocolate and purple cultivars produced 1.6 lb per ft2
.
When comparing cultivars for those with the highest yield
and fruit quality characteristics with low amounts of culls
or other disorders, the best red cultivars were Lorca, Torkal,
Triple 4, and Zambra; yellow cultivars were Pekin, Kelvin,
Neibla, Bossanova, and Taranto; and orange cultivars
were Paramo, Lion, and Boogie. Both Choco and Mavras
produced high yields and quality fruit, which may be
desirable for specialty market production.
Growing Seasons
The most common greenhouse pepper production season
extends from mid July or early August to May. Long crops
of up to 300 days are transplanted during the second or
third week of July with a first harvest about the middle of
October, ending in late May. Depending on fruit prices
and on the quantity and quality of the fruits harvested,
production may be extended until June. In Table 1, three
production schemes for greenhouse-grown peppers that
have been used in Florida are presented.
High temperatures and humidity during July and August
adversely affect production but are good for young plant
growth. With some cultivars, percentages of unmarketable
fruits increase during the late spring, mainly due to a
higher incidence of blossom-end rot and fruit cracking.
Fruit set can also be low during summer due to high rates
of flower abortion under high temperatures. Air ventila-
tion and shade materials for 30% shade help reduce high
temperatures during the late spring, summer, and early
fall. Cold weather during winter can also adversely affect
the set of marketable fruits due to poor pollination, and
delay maturation and earliness in production. In central
and north Florida, optimum daytime temperatures required
for pepper production can be easily achieved in winter
while optimum night temperatures cannot, and, therefore,
heating during the night may be necessary to increase fruit
yield and improve fruit quality.
Figure 6. Bell pepper fruits from cultivars that mature to different
colors.
Credits: Elio Jovicich
Archival copy: for current recommendations see http://edis.ifas.ufl.edu or your local extension office.

-- 3 of 8 --

4
Soilless Culture Systems
Greenhouse pepper crops in Florida are grown in soil-less
culture. Thus methyl bromide is not needed, yet problems
with soil borne diseases, and insect and nematode pests
are avoided. The plants are grown in containers filled with
soil-less media such as perlite, pine bark, or peat mixes.
The media can be reused for several crops (two to three) if
disease contamination does not occur. The containers used
are nursery pots (3 and 4 gal) with one plant per pot (Fig.
7), or flat polyethylene bags of about 3 ft long (5 gal) with 3
to 4 plants per bag. The plant containers can be aligned in
single or double rows, one next to the other one, leading to
plant population densities of 0.27 to 0.36 plants per square
foot.
In local trials with greenhouse-grown peppers, fruit yields
from plants grown in 3-gal pots or 5-gal flat bags have been
similar. Also, similar marketable fruit yields were harvested
from plants grown in various substrates, such as perlite,
pine bark, or peat-perlite mixes. Pine bark, milled and
sieved to particle sizes smaller than one square inch, has
shown to be a promising medium because of its low cost,
availability, lack of phytotoxicity, and excellence as a plant
production media.
Irrigation and Fertilization
Pepper plants in soil-less culture are fertigated frequently
with a complete nutrient solution. Nutrient solution
concentrations are similar to those used for tomatoes grown
in soil-less culture. The concentrations of most of the
nutrients required by pepper plants in larger quantities are
increased with plant growth. For example, in the irrigation
solution used with soil-less culture, the concentration of
nutrients in parts per million (ppm, being 1 ppm = 1 mg
per L 1 oz per 7,462.7 gal) can be for N: 70, P: 50, K: 119,
Ca: 110, Mg: 40, and S: 55, starting when transplanting the
seedlings. In plants at full production, the nutrient con-
centration levels can reach N: 160, P: 50, K: 200, Ca: 190,
Mg: 48, and S: 65 ppm, respectively. The irrigation solution
also provides the plants with micronutrients. The pH of the
irrigation solution is maintained at values between 5.5 and
6.5, and the EC, depending on the nutrients concentration
levels, will have values between 1.5 and 2.5 mS per cm.
At the time of transplanting, seedlings can be irrigated
about 10 times per day delivering about 1.3 fl oz per
irrigation event. As plants grow and season temperatures
increase, irrigation frequency and volume per irrigation
event can be increased up to 40 times per day and 2.5 fl oz
per irrigation event, respectively. During full production
and under intense sunlight (warm weather), volumes of
nutrient solution per plant per day may reach up to 1.5
gal. Irrigation events can be scheduled by using different
control systems such as a time clock, a starter tray, or
a controller that irrigates based on solar radiation. An
excess of irrigation leading to 15 or 20 % drainage from
the container at the end of a day ensures sufficient solution
delivery throughout the crop and avoids a high concentra-
tion of salts in the soil-less media. Systems for recycling
the fertigation solution are available and provide a more
sustainable use of water and nutrients. With these “closed”
irrigation systems, the solution that drains from the pots
is sanitized and then the pH and EC are corrected to meet
the plant needs. Subsequently, the nutrient solution can be
recycled on the same pepper crop.
Transplanting
Deposits of salt at high levels and excessive irrigation
near the cotyledonary node level can promote localized
epidermal injuries on a swollen stem base where fungal
infections lead to basal stem rots and sudden plant wilts.
This phenomenon (symptoms of basal stem swelling and
epidermal wounds at the base of the stem) has been named
“Elephants foot.” For more information on the “Elephant’s
foot” disorder, please refer to this UF/IFAS Extension
publication, “Elephant’s Foot, a Basal Stem Disorder in
Greenhouse-Grown Bell Peppers,” at http://edis.ifas.ufl.
edu/HS206. To avoid injuries to the plant stem below the
cotyledonary leaves, seedlings (about 35 days-old, 5-7 true
leaves) should be transplanted into the soilless culture
substrate to the depth of the first leaf node. To reduce
creating a humid environment close to the base of the
Figure 7. Pepper plants grown in 3-gal nursery pots filled with pine
bark, and irrigated with a complete nutrient solution.
Credits: Elio Jovicich
Archival copy: for current recommendations see http://edis.ifas.ufl.edu or your local extension office.

-- 4 of 8 --

5
stem, irrigation emitters placed near the seedling stems at
transplanting can be gradually moved back (2-3 inches)
from the base of the pepper plants over a three week period.
Pruning and Training
Greenhouse pepper cultivars generally have an indetermi-
nate pattern of growth. Because the plants can grow up to
6-ft tall during a growing season of 250 days, they need to
be supported vertically. Pepper plants can be trellised to
the Dutch “V” system or to the “Spanish” system (Fig. 8).
Trellising plants with the “V” system consists of forming
a plant with two main stems by removing one of the two
shoots developed on each node and leaving one or more
adjacent leaves per node. The pairs of stems are kept verti-
cally by the use of hanging twines that are wound around
the stems as they grow. The “V” trellis system is used by
Dutch and Canadian growers.
Spanish, Israeli, and some Mexican growers generally
trellis the pepper plants using the “Spanish” system. In the
“Spanish” trellis system, the plant canopy is allowed to grow
without pruning. The plants are vertically supported by a
structure of poles and horizontal twines extended on both
sides of the plant rows. Labor requirements for the Spanish
system are reduced minimally by 75% of the labor used
compared with the “V” trellis system. In a spring crop in
Florida, total marketable fruit yields were similar regardless
of the trellis system. Moreover, the yield of extra large fruits
was actually greater in the plants trellised to the “Spanish”
system than in the “V” trellis system. The percentage of
fruits with blossom-end rot at the end of the spring was also
lower in the nonpruned plants.
Pollination
Pepper flowers are self pollinated, but the use of bumble-
bees inside the greenhouse help to ensure the set of high
quality fruits, especially during the cool season when pollen
viability is lower (Fig. 9). Bumblebees feed on nectar and
pollen and their daily activity is naturally timed with the
period when flowers are ready to be fertilized. Although
one bumblebee hive (containing about 60 bees) per 16,000
square feet might seem costly to the grower, pollination
done by workers would be less efficient and much more
expensive. The expected life span of the colony is 8 to 12
weeks. The hive should be placed under shade in summer
and in the sun in winter and isolated from ants. The hives
contain a supplement food for the bees during periods of
low abundance of flowers because overvisited flowers may
lead to fruits with cork-like spots at the blossom-end.
Fruit Disorders
Optimal environmental conditions for the crop may not
always be possible to reach with no heaters or without a
greenhouse structure that ensures good ventilation. Pepper
fruits may develop physiological disorders such as “color
spots,” cracking, blossom-end rots, and flat-shaped fruits.
Most of these disorders are caused by environmental
stresses during fruit development but can be minimized by
using cultivars that have less susceptibility to stress.
Yellow spots can occur on the outer surface of the fruit (Fig.
10). The “color spots,” sometimes already visible on green
fruits, turn yellow as the fruit matures, reducing the visual
quality of the fruits for consumers. High incidences of this
disorder occurred in summer, and in plants grown at high
Figure 8. Pepper plants trellised to the ‘V’ system (left) and in a double
row trellised to the ‘Spanish’ system (right).
Credits: Elio Jovicich
Figure 9. Use of bumble bees to increase set of high quality fruits.
Credits: Elio Jovicich
Archival copy: for current recommendations see http://edis.ifas.ufl.edu or your local extension office.

-- 5 of 8 --

6
densities, under shade, or fertilized with high levels of N;
avoid pepper varieties susceptible to this disorder.
Fruit cracking results from ruptures on the cuticle at the
blossom-end (radial cracking) or all over the fruit surface
(russeting) (Fig. 11). Pepper plants which receive too much
water can have higher incidences of fruit cracking. Pepper
cultivars with thick-walled fruits (>8 mm) are more suscep-
tible to cracking than cultivars with thinner fruit walls.
Flat pepper fruits are caused by low temperature (Fig. 12).
Night temperatures of around 64°F ensure an ideal seed set
and fruit shape. Low-night temperatures decrease pollen
viability in pepper flowers and modify flower structure
making self pollination less effective. Use of bumblebees
for pollination can help greatly to improve fruit shape.
Blossom-end rot can be caused by reduced absorption and
translocation of calcium into the fruit (Fig 13). Calcium
deficiency in the fruit occurs as a result of one or more
factors, such as low Ca concentration in the solution or
media, excessive salinity in the irrigation solution or media,
extreme moisture fluctuations in the media, and rapid plant
growth due to high temperatures and solar radiation. The
localized deficiency of Ca, which occurs at the sides and
lower parts of the pepper fruit, manifest itself as regions
with collapsed tissue that gradually turn black, making the
Figure 10. ‘Color spots’ in red bell peppers.
Credits: Elio Jovicich
Figure 11. Fruit cracking in bell pepper. Radial cracking (left) and
russeting (right).
Credits: Elio Jovicich
Figure 12. Bell shaped pepper fruit with abundant seeds (top, right
and left) and flat parthenocarpic fruit (bottom, right and left).
Credits: Elio Jovicich
Figure 13. Blossom-end rot in bell peppers.
Credits: Elio Jovicich
Archival copy: for current recommendations see http://edis.ifas.ufl.edu or your local extension office.

-- 6 of 8 --

7
fruit unmarketable. Pepper cultivars have different levels
of susceptibility to the disorder. The disorder in pepper is
difficult to prevent with foliar applications of Ca.
Harvesting, Packing, and
Maintaining Postharvest Fruit
Quality
Throughout the harvest season, pepper plants will have rip-
ened fruits in flushes or waves of production. Under warm
environments, ripened fruits can be picked once or twice a
week (up to 3 fruits per plant at each harvest). Sharp prun-
ing scissors or knives should be used to cut the fruits at the
level of the abscission zone on the fruits peduncle (Fig. 14).
Pepper fruits with intact peduncles are more resistant to
bacterial soft rot than those with torn or partial peduncles.
Nonmarketable fruits should be removed from the plants
as soon as they are observed. However, in the case of fruits
with blossom-end rot, some growers advise not to remove
young fruits with this disorder as this practice will promote
a rapid vegetative growth, which may lead to Ca deficiency
in developing fruits, thus increasing the incidence of
blossom-end rot.
Marketable fruits are graded by diameter (maximum
distance across shoulders). Fruits with greater size bring
higher prices. Fruit grades can follow the USDA standards
for field-grown peppers or can be based on classifications
based on diameter ranges similar to greenhouse peppers
imported from Holland (extra-large, diameter >3.3 in;
large, 3 to 3.2 in; medium, 2.5 to 2.9 in; and small, 2.2 to 2.4
in). Extra large fruits generally weigh about half a pound,
although individual fruit weight will vary with cultivar.
Peppers should not be submerged in water during the
transfer to the packing line since water can easily infiltrate
the hollow pod and cause postharvest decay. Overhead
spray with clean water works well for washing; free water
should be removed prior to packing. Pepper fruits are often
individually labeled and packed in single or double layers in
11-lb corrugated cartons (Fig. 14).
Pepper fruit respiration rate can be reduced to a minimum
by lowering the product temperature. Optimal storage
conditions are 45°F and 90 to 95% relative humidity. To
avoid chilling injury, fruits should not be stored at tempera-
tures below 45°F. Maximum pepper fruit storage life is 2 to
3 weeks under the most favorable conditions. Symptoms
of chilling injury are water-soaked spots, pitting, or tissue
collapse. Extensive decay develops on chilled peppers
when they are removed from low-temperature storage.
Temperatures above 55°F enhance ripening and spread of
bacterial soft rot.
Rapid cooling of harvested sweet peppers is essential in
reducing marketing losses. Pre-cooling by forced-air is the
preferred method. Peppers are very susceptible to water
loss. Symptoms of shriveling may become evident with as
little as 3% weight loss. Pre-cooling and storage in a high
relative humidity (90 - 95%) will minimize weight loss.
Peppers can be waxed, but only a thin coating should be
applied. Waxing provides some surface lubrication which
reduces chafing in transit. Water loss can also be limited by
packing peppers into cartons with moisture-retentive liners
or into perforated polyethylene bags.
Pests and Diseases
Pests are reduced but not eliminated in screened green-
house structures. Transplants must be free of pests and
weeds must not be present inside the greenhouse. The
major arthropod pests observed in greenhouse peppers
in Florida are broad mite (Polyphagotarsonemus latus),
twospotted mite (Tetranychus urticae), western flower thrips
(Frankliniella occidentalis), melon thrips (Thrips palmi),
green peach aphid (Myzus persicae), melon or cotton aphid
(Aphis gossypii), silverleaf or sweet potato whitefly (Bemisia
argentifolii), pepper weevil (Anthonomus eugenii), fungus
gnats (Bradysia spp.), and several lepidopterous pests.
Common fungal diseases are powdery mildew (Leveillula
taurica) and Fusarium (F. oxysporum and F. solani). For
more information on F. solani in greenhouse-grown
peppers, please refer to this UF/IFAS Extension publication,
“Fusarium Stem Rot of Greenhouse Peppers”. Western flower
thrips can transmit tomato spotted wilt virus (TSWV).
Insecticides are available to control insect and mite pests.
However, many chemicals negatively affect bumblebees,
beneficial organisms, and the pepper plant itself. Also, crop
reentry after using pesticides can complicate management
Figure 14. Fruit harvest by cutting at the peduncle’s abscission zone
(right) and fruits graded, labeled, and packed in 11-lb cartons (right).
Credits: Dr. Steve Sargent
Archival copy: for current recommendations see http://edis.ifas.ufl.edu or your local extension office.

-- 7 of 8 --

8
when plants have to be accessed frequently for pruning,
training, and harvesting. Some products, such as soaps,
oils, and sulfur, often are phytotoxic to pepper plants in the
greenhouse.
Research in the Protected Agriculture Project at the Univer-
sity of Florida (http://www.hos.ufl.edu/ProtectedAg ) and at
the Mid-Florida Research & Education Center (http://mrec.
ifas.ufl.edu/lso/) is evaluating biological control practices
used in other regions and crop systems to minimize or
avoid the use of pesticides. Augmented biological control
involves the release of living organisms that will limit the
abundance of other living organisms. In pepper, melon
aphids have been successfully controlled by releasing a
parasitic wasp, Aphidius colemani. Twospotted spider mites
were controlled by releasing a predatory mite, Neoseiulus
californicus. The appearance of lepidopterous pests is
greatly reduced by using insect screens on the greenhouse
vents. When adult moths are present in the greenhouse, the
larval stages can be controlled by repeated treatments with
Bacillus thuringiensis. B. thuringiensis can also be applied
near the base of the plants to control larvae of fungus gnats.
Releases of a parasitic wasp, Eretmocerous eremicus, were
used to maintain low populations of silverleaf whitefly.
Current research evaluates using predatory mites N.
californicus and Neoseiulus cucumeris for the control of
broad mites. N. cucumeris and big-eyed bugs, Orius spp.,
can be used to control western flower thrips.
Compared to the use of pesticides, with biological control,
insects do not develop resistance as they do to certain
insecticides. Also, restricted reentry periods to the
greenhouse due to the use of insecticides are eliminated, the
environment for workers is safer, and harvest products can
be labeled “pesticide free,” which may attract higher prices
and/or increase consumer demand. The use and success
of biological control will require that the crop is scouted
frequently to determine presence and to estimate popula-
tion densities of crop damaging pests and their natural or
introduced enemies. Combining the use of bumblebees
with natural enemies does not present any problems, but
the use of chemicals may have direct or indirect effects on
the bumblebees and/or natural enemies. Information about
the side effects that agricultural chemicals have on bumble-
bees and on biological control agents can be provided by
the companies that supply these organisms.
The production of greenhouse-grown peppers represents
an alternative crop in Florida. In the Protected Agriculture
Project at the University of Florida, ongoing research
on greenhouse-grown peppers on production systems,
fruit quality, cultivars, nutrient and water management,
integrated pest and disease management, post harvest, and
marketing are being evaluated. Current and past research,
publications, and links to products used for pepper green-
house production and other specialty crops are posted in an
up-to-date website at http://www.hos.ufl.edu/ProtectedAg.
Table 1. Commercial production schemes of greenhouse-grown bell pepper used in Florida.
Jan 	Feb 	Mar 	Apr 	May 	Jun 	Jul 	Aug 	Sep 	Oct 	Nov 	Dec
Fall to Summer 	E 	T 	H
Winter to Spring 	H 	E 	T
Spring to Summer
& Fall to Spring (2
crops)
T 	H 	E
E 	T 	H
T: Transplant, H: Harvest and E: End of the crop.
Archival copy: for current recommendations see http://edis.ifas.ufl.edu or your local extension office.

-- 8 of 8 --

